- [Instructor] Let us take a look
at the Spring MVC architecture
at a high level.
Let's say this is your client, a JSP.
It could be any other view technology
that you want to work with.
When you have an incoming request
from your client it is intercepted
by an API called Dispatcher Servlet,
and this is the star of the Spring MVC framework.
Every request is always uniquely identified
by a urlpattern.
And this urlpattern is mapped to a filter
and a controller dedicated to that request processing.
This url mapping resolution will be done
by Dispatcher Servlet by means of
interacting with another special bean type
called Handler Mapping.
Once it does this resolution, then it'll
delegate the control to the respective controller component.
Dispatcher Servlet works on a design pattern
called Front Controller.
This pattern is common even across
the other web MVC frameworks.
How does it work?
It's like a traffic policeman.
All the vehicle at a traffic signal
comes towards the policeman first
and then stops.
Then on the basis of who wants to go where
the policeman will divert that traffic
at all directions.
This is how Dispatcher Servlet works.
All the incoming requests that come
in the application are first intercepted
by it and bases who wants to go where
it'll delegate the control to the respective controller.
The controller is then free to call
the rest of the Application Business Logic
where it may talk to database or any
other third-party service.
Once the logic execution is completed,
the flow comes back to the controller.
And that's the point where the controller
decides the name of the view that the control
is supposed to be for, what it do for the display of data.
Now this is a logical name.
This logical name is picked up by the Dispatcher Servlet
and it consults another component called View resolvers.
View resolvers will help Dispatcher Servlet
know the mapping of the logical name of the view
to the respective JSP template.
Thereafter the Dispatcher Servlet
is then going to carry the JSP and display
it in the browser as part of the response.